Hi, and welcome back.
In this video, I just wanted to give you
a few words of warning for
some of the pages you may try to scrape
will not work,
and the reason for that is JavaScript.
So, as I may have said before, JavaScript is
a programming language that your browser executes.
And it can be used for dealing with user interactions,
for example.
So when the user does something, maybe you get a window
that appears on your screen, or a modal, or maybe
you get some sort of alert, or something like that.
In some cases, you press the login button,
and then you get a nice window there where you can log in.
And those sort of things can happen because there is some
JavaScript code on the page that your browser can execute.
Your browser can run it.
However, when you download the page using
the Requests module, you don't have access to
running the JavaScript, because you don't have a browser.
You don't have a JavaScript interpreter.
So, if the page relies on JavaScript to change the content,
then it won't work with the Requests module.
And a word of warning is
some pages will actually be a blank page,
and then the content is populated using JavaScript.
So sometimes the page is completely blank,
and it's a lot of JavaScript code in the background
that's actually putting the content on the page.
When you download the page using Requests,
all you'll see is a blank page
because you cannot run the JavaScript.
So, if that happens to you, you know why it is.
It's because there's JavaScript code in there.
And the way you know that something's gone wrong,
is because you'll be able to inspect the page.
You'll see a bunch of content, and that's great,
but then when you download the pages in Requests,
the contents of the page will look very different.
You can see it just by printing it out in your Python code.
And if it looks very different,
it's because there's JavaScript code in there doing things.
There are ways, of course, to launch a browser using Python,
and interact with websites using the browser,
which is controlled by Python.
But those are a bit more advanced,
and I'll try to add content to cover that in the course,
but it's not here at the time that I'm recording this video.
It may be here by the time you're watching it.
So nonetheless, you'll need to use something called
Selenium if you want to interact with a page
that uses JavaScript.
So feel free to take the rest of the course,
see if Selenium content's up, and if not,
you can look online and see how you can use
Selenium to do that.
But that's only if the page you're interacting with
has JavaScript.
If it does not, like a lot of pages don't,
feel free to continue using Requests.
It will do exactly what you want.
And in many cases, the pages will have JavaScript,
but they will also be interactable with Requests,
because the JavaScript will be used to add
some sort of functionality,
not necessarily to change the entire page.
So give Requests a go first.
It's the simplest way of going about things.
And if that doesn't work,
and you really need to interact with that page,
look at Selenium in order to learn more.
That's it for this video, and I'll see you on the next one.